_pages/carlaworkshop.md, before:

---
permalink: /workshops/
title: "Workshop on Weather Forecasting"
excerpt: |
   "Latin America and Caribbean Advances on Weather Forecasting. September 22-26, Kingston (Jamaica)"
  
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/backgrounds/Hurricanes.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background


organizing_committee: 
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/Kate.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **M.A. Katherine Rasmussen, Berkeley Lab**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/MichaelDuda.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **M.S. Michael Duda, NCAR**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/natalie-henriques.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **MBA. Natalie Henriques, TACC**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/jose_monsalve.jpeg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Jose Monsalve, AMD**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/esteban_hernandez.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Esteban Hernández, CyberColombia**

toc: true
toc_label: "Content" # defautl: Content
toc_icon: "book"     # corresponding Font Awesome icon name without the "fa" prefix
toc_sticky: true     # enables sticky toc           
---

### This workshop is part of [CARLA 2025 conference](https://carlaconference.org/workshops-events-2025/) 
 
### Introduction

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Extreme weather and climate hazard forecasting plays a fundamental role in mitigating climate risks across Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), a region disproportionately affected by climate change. Increasingly frequent hydrometeorological hazards—including extreme temperatures, droughts, storms, hurricanes, and floods, confirm the urgency of accurate information and predictive tools. However, historical challenges such as fragmented observational networks and limited regional collaboration have hampered progress in developing tailored forecasting models and leveraging high-performance computing (HPC) solutions for climate and atmospheric research.

In the meantime, the international community is moving from current-generation modeling tools (e.g., the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model) to next-generation models that can take advantage of modern HPC systems (e.g., the Model for Prediction Across Scales - Atmosphere (MPAS-A). Furthermore, as AI and ML advance their capabilities and are increasingly adopted, questions remain regarding the convergence between weather forecasting and these technologies.
</p>


### Scope

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;"> This workshop seeks to establish a collaborative platform for the LAC weather and climate community to address these gaps. It will bring together the community to discuss the strategic and technical future of weather forecasting. We will include presentations by invited speakers and peer-reviewed papers that will showcase advances in regional modeling, model adaptations and development, use or creation of new models, and the fostering of partnerships. An emphasis will be placed on integrating local climatic characteristics, such as ENSO-related variability, into predictive frameworks.
</p>


### Topics

1. **Advances in Regional Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) for LAC**
   Development and adaptation of high‑resolution regional models (e.g., WRF, MPAS‑A) suited to Latin American climatic and topographic diversity

2. **Next‑Generation High‑Performance Computing in Forecasting Models**
   Strategies to leverage modern HPC architectures—such as GPU clusters and exascale systems—to run scalable, multi‑scale atmospheric simulations

3. **Multiresolution and Multimodel Integration**
   Methods to fuse outputs from nested-resolution and ensemble modeling systems, enhancing reliability while optimizing computational cost.

4. **Data Models & Assimilation Schemes for a Fragmented Observational Network**
   Innovative assimilation techniques that incorporate heterogeneous datasets: remote sensors, regional weather stations, satellite data, and IoT‑enabled platforms.

5. **Modeling ENSO and Other Regional Climate Drivers**
   Incorporation of ENSO phases, Amazon variability, Andean climatic influences, and teleconnection patterns into forecasting systems tailored to LAC.

6. **AI/ML‑Enhanced Forecasting: Convergence with NWP**
   Integration of machine learning with classical models—hybrid architectures, surrogate modeling, downscaling, and bias correction approaches

7. **End‑to‑End Operational Pipelines: From Research to Production**
   Deploying research-grade models into operational forecasting platforms, including tools for visualization, dissemination, and stakeholder integration.

8. **Cross‑Institutional & Regional Collaboration Frameworks**
   Design of shared platforms and partnerships for model code:

   * Standardization of datasets and metadata
   * Interoperability across national meteorological institutions
   * Best practices for model version control and joint development.



### Agenda  (Initial schedule) 

| Time          | Activity                      |
|---------------|-------------------------------|
|Morning       | KeyNote and Technical Sessions |
|Lunch         | Provides by main conference |
|Afternoon     | Lightning talks, Discussions and Panel |

<!-- | 08:00 - 08:30 | Registration & Welcome        |
| 08:30 - 09:30 | MPAS Tutorial                 |
| 09:30 - 10:00 | ☕ Coffee Break                |
| 10:00 - 11:30 | MONAN project                 |
| 11:30 - 12:00 | Session 3                     |
| 12:00 - 13:30 | 🍽️ Lunch Break                |
| 13:30 - 15:30 | Session 4/Presentation                  |
| 15:30 - 16:00 | ☕ Coffee Break                |
| 16:00 - 17:00 | Session 5 / Panel Discussion  | -->

### Important Dates
- Open call for Papers/Participation: June 25, 2025.
- Paper submission deadline: July 30, 2025.
- Paper author notification: Aug 20, 2025.
- Camera-ready version: September 10, 2025.


### Organizing Committee
<br>
{% include feature_row id="organizing_committee" %}

Commit message:

Guidelines for Paper and another presentation

_pages/carlaworkshop.md, after:

---
permalink: /workshops/
title: "Workshop on Weather Forecasting"
layout: splash
type: center
excerpt: |
   "Latin America and Caribbean Advances on Weather Forecasting. September 22-26, Kingston (Jamaica)"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/backgrounds/Hurricanes.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background


organizing_committee: 
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/Kate.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **M.A. Katherine Rasmussen, Berkeley Lab**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/MichaelDuda.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **M.S. Michael Duda, NCAR**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2025/natalie-henriques.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **MBA. Natalie Henriques, TACC**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/jose_monsalve.jpeg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Jose Monsalve, AMD**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/esteban_hernandez.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Esteban Hernández, CyberColombia**

toc: true
toc_label: "Content" # defautl: Content
toc_icon: "book"     # corresponding Font Awesome icon name without the "fa" prefix
toc_sticky: true     # enables sticky toc           
---

### Introduction

This workshop is part of [CARLA 2025 conference](https://carlaconference.org/workshops-events-2025/) 
<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Extreme weather and climate hazard forecasting plays a fundamental role in mitigating climate risks across Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), a region disproportionately affected by climate change. Increasingly frequent hydrometeorological hazards—including extreme temperatures, droughts, storms, hurricanes, and floods, confirm the urgency of accurate information and predictive tools. However, historical challenges such as fragmented observational networks and limited regional collaboration have hampered progress in developing tailored forecasting models and leveraging high-performance computing (HPC) solutions for climate and atmospheric research.

In the meantime, the international community is moving from current-generation modeling tools (e.g., the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model) to next-generation models that can take advantage of modern HPC systems (e.g., the Model for Prediction Across Scales - Atmosphere (MPAS-A). Furthermore, as AI and ML advance their capabilities and are increasingly adopted, questions remain regarding the convergence between weather forecasting and these technologies.
</p>


### Scope

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;"> This workshop seeks to establish a collaborative platform for the LAC weather and climate community to address these gaps. It will bring together the community to discuss the strategic and technical future of weather forecasting. We will include presentations by invited speakers and peer-reviewed papers that will showcase advances in regional modeling, model adaptations and development, use or creation of new models, and the fostering of partnerships. An emphasis will be placed on integrating local climatic characteristics, such as ENSO-related variability, into predictive frameworks.
</p>


### Topics

1. **Advances in Regional Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) for LAC**
   Development and adaptation of high‑resolution regional models (e.g., WRF, MPAS‑A) suited to Latin American climatic and topographic diversity

2. **Next‑Generation High‑Performance Computing in Forecasting Models**
   Strategies to leverage modern HPC architectures—such as GPU clusters and exascale systems—to run scalable, multi‑scale atmospheric simulations

3. **Multiresolution and Multimodel Integration**
   Methods to fuse outputs from nested-resolution and ensemble modeling systems, enhancing reliability while optimizing computational cost.

4. **Data Models & Assimilation Schemes for a Fragmented Observational Network**
   Innovative assimilation techniques that incorporate heterogeneous datasets: remote sensors, regional weather stations, satellite data, and IoT‑enabled platforms.

5. **Modeling ENSO and Other Regional Climate Drivers**
   Incorporation of ENSO phases, Amazon variability, Andean climatic influences, and teleconnection patterns into forecasting systems tailored to LAC.

6. **AI/ML‑Enhanced Forecasting: Convergence with NWP**
   Integration of machine learning with classical models—hybrid architectures, surrogate modeling, downscaling, and bias correction approaches

7. **End‑to‑End Operational Pipelines: From Research to Production**
   Deploying research-grade models into operational forecasting platforms, including tools for visualization, dissemination, and stakeholder integration.

8. **Cross‑Institutional & Regional Collaboration Frameworks**
   Design of shared platforms and partnerships for model code:

   * Standardization of datasets and metadata
   * Interoperability across national meteorological institutions
   * Best practices for model version control and joint development.

### Submission Guidelines
Authors must follow the Springer LNCS style for paper formatting. You can find templates and more information here.

#### Full Papers
Language: English (official conference language)
Maximum Length:  8-15 pages
Peer Review: Single-blind, reviewed by at least two experts

#### Technical Talks
These require a 500-1,000 word abstract. Additional supporting materials may be submitted as a single pdf document. The final presentation slides are required to be provided to the organisers at the workshop.

#### Panel Discussions
These require a 500-1,000 word abstract, to include session leader information, details of any other speakers, and clearly stating the goal(s), topic, relevance to the expected audience, the expected outcome and how you plan to organize the session.

#### Originality: 
Submissions must be unpublished and not under review elsewhere 

### Submission Process
To begin the submission process, please register an account in the [submission site](https://meteor.springer.com/carla2025) and submit your paper, following the instructions. For additional guidance with the paper submission, please reference the Help Guides under the **“Author Guidelines”** page on the Project Home Page of the submission site under the track **Workshop: Latin America and Caribbean Advances on Weather Forecasting** 

#### Submission Site
[https://meteor.springer.com/carla2025](https://meteor.springer.com/carla2025)

### Agenda  (Initial schedule) 

| Time          | Activity                      |
|---------------|-------------------------------|
|Morning       | KeyNote and Technical Sessions |
|Lunch         | Provides by main conference |
|Afternoon     | Lightning talks, Discussions and Panel |

### Important Dates
- Paper submission deadline: July 30, 2025.
- Paper author notification: Aug 20, 2025.
- Camera-ready version: September 10, 2025.

### Organizing Committee
<br>
{% include feature_row id="organizing_committee" %}
