_pages/consulting.md, before:

---
permalink: /consulting/
title: "Consulting Services"
# layout: splash
excerpt: |
   Our consulting services offer comprehensive expertise in the realm of high-performance computing (HPC). With a deep understanding of industry best practices and cutting-edge technologies, we provide strategic guidance and practical solutions tailored to optimize HPC performance, scalability, and efficiency for your organization. Partner with us to unlock the full potential of HPC and achieve accelerated innovation and impactful results. 
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/work.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background

sidebar:
  - nav: sidebar-services
---

<style>
  .page {
    width: calc(100% - 300px);
    padding-right: 0px;
  }
</style>

# HPC Programming

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;"> Our consulting services in HPC programming offer expertise in developing efficient, parallel algorithms and optimizing code for high-performance computing systems. We provide guidance on utilizing industry-standard programming models and frameworks, enabling clients to harness the full potential of HPC architectures and achieve optimal performance for their computational workloads.</p>

 
# Data at Scale

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">With our specialized consulting in handling data at scale, we assist organizations in managing and processing large volumes of data efficiently. Our expertise spans data storage, retrieval, and analysis techniques, ensuring seamless integration with HPC infrastructure. We provide tailored solutions for big data workflows, enabling clients to extract valuable insights and make informed decisions from their data-intensive applications.</p>


# Machine and Deep Learning
<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Our consulting services in machine and deep learning empower clients to leverage advanced AI techniques for complex problem-solving. We guide organizations in designing and training machine learning models on HPC platforms, enabling accelerated training times and superior performance. With expertise in deploying deep learning frameworks and optimizing neural networks, we help clients unlock the potential of AI-driven applications.</p>

# Computational Sciences:

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Our consulting in computational sciences focuses on leveraging HPC capabilities to advance scientific research. We collaborate with academic and research institutions to develop customized computational workflows, facilitating simulations, modeling, and data analysis across scientific disciplines. Our expertise in optimizing algorithms and leveraging parallel computing ensures efficient utilization of HPC resources, enabling breakthrough discoveries in diverse computational domains..</p>

Commit message:

Redesign for migration of services to Cybercomputing Consulting Group pages

_pages/consulting.md, after:

---
permalink: /consulting/
title: "Consulting Services"
# layout: splash
excerpt: |
   Our consulting services offer comprehensive expertise in the realm of high-performance computing (HPC). With a deep understanding of industry best practices and cutting-edge technologies, we provide strategic guidance and practical solutions tailored to optimize HPC performance, scalability, and efficiency for your organization. Partner with us to unlock the full potential of HPC and achieve accelerated innovation and impactful results.  Our consulting services are provides by <a href="https://cybercomputingcg.com/>"Cybercomputing Consulting Group </a>  
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/work.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background

sidebar:
  - nav: sidebar-services
---

<style>
  .page {
    width: calc(100% - 300px);
    padding-right: 0px;
  }
</style>

# HPC Programming

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;"> Our consulting services in HPC programming offer expertise in developing efficient, parallel algorithms and optimizing code for high-performance computing systems. We provide guidance on utilizing industry-standard programming models and frameworks, enabling clients to harness the full potential of HPC architectures and achieve optimal performance for their computational workloads.</p>

 
# Data at Scale

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">With our specialized consulting in handling data at scale, we assist organizations in managing and processing large volumes of data efficiently. Our expertise spans data storage, retrieval, and analysis techniques, ensuring seamless integration with HPC infrastructure. We provide tailored solutions for big data workflows, enabling clients to extract valuable insights and make informed decisions from their data-intensive applications.</p>


# Machine and Deep Learning
<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Our consulting services in machine and deep learning empower clients to leverage advanced AI techniques for complex problem-solving. We guide organizations in designing and training machine learning models on HPC platforms, enabling accelerated training times and superior performance. With expertise in deploying deep learning frameworks and optimizing neural networks, we help clients unlock the potential of AI-driven applications.</p>

# Computational Sciences:

<p style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word;">Our consulting in computational sciences focuses on leveraging HPC capabilities to advance scientific research. We collaborate with academic and research institutions to develop customized computational workflows, facilitating simulations, modeling, and data analysis across scientific disciplines. Our expertise in optimizing algorithms and leveraging parallel computing ensures efficient utilization of HPC resources, enabling breakthrough discoveries in diverse computational domains..</p>
