_pages/events/urbanecho_2026.md, before:

---
permalink: /events/urbanecho_2026/
title: "Urban Artificial Intelligence"
type: center
excerpt: |
   "Workshop on Urban Artificial Intelligence"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/backgrounds/UrbanIntelligence.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
sidebar:
  - nav: sidebar-events

organizing_committee: 
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2026/grace_urbanecho.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **Dr. Grace Orowo Kagho, Urban Echo**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/esteban_hernandez.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Esteban Hernández, CyberColombia**

toc: true
toc_label: "Content" # defautl: Content
toc_icon: "book"     # corresponding Font Awesome icon name without the "fa" prefix
toc_sticky: true     # enables sticky toc           
---

### Introduction

The workshop is designed to bridge academic research and real-world urban decision-making. It combines a structured technical introduction with a guided co-creation session, allowing participants to move from urban challenges to concrete research and prototyping ideas.

### Workshop structure (4 hours): 

### Part 1 – Technical talk and live demo (approx. 2 hours) 
This first block introduces the fundamentals of agent-based modeling and digital twins as tools to study complex urban systems. We will present how these approaches are currently used in urban research and policy  contexts, and walk through UrbanEcho’s platform and previous cases as examples.

### Part 2 – Guided brainstorming and research design (approx. 2 hours)
In the second half, participants organized in mixed groups (academia, transport, water, security, planning), will bring concrete urban issues or research questions they are interested in addressing. With guidance from the UrbanEcho team, each group will work on translating those issues into modelable research problems: defining agents, data needs, scenarios, and outcome metrics. The session closes with a plenary discussion to identify promising ideas and possible next steps toward pilot studies or applied research projects.


## Date
February  28, 2026

## Location
Bogota, Colombia <br>
Distrital University<br> 
[Aduanilla de Paiba](https://maps.app.goo.gl/K3QpDdoadHPF1qUq6)

## Important
**Register required**

## Organization Comitee 
{% include feature_row id="organizing_committee" %}




### The KeyNote


Dr. Grace Orowo Kagho  is  Lecturer at the Department of Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering of ETH Zuric


## Stay connected

If you would like to stay connected with this community, feel free to contact us at [workshops@cybercolombia.org](mailto:workshops@cybercolombia.org)

Commit message:

Add language for evento urbanecho 2026

_pages/events/urbanecho_2026.md, after:

---
permalink: /events/urbanecho_2026/
title: "Urban Artificial Intelligence"
type: center
excerpt: |
   "Workshop on Urban Artificial Intelligence"
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/backgrounds/UrbanIntelligence.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5 # same as adding an opacity of 0.5 to a black background
sidebar:
  - nav: sidebar-events

organizing_committee: 
  - image_path: "/assets/images/speakers/2026/grace_urbanecho.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **Dr. Grace Orowo Kagho, Urban Echo**
  - image_path: "/assets/images/members/esteban_hernandez.jpg"
    excerpt: |
        **PhD. Esteban Hernández, CyberColombia**

toc: true
toc_label: "Content" # defautl: Content
toc_icon: "book"     # corresponding Font Awesome icon name without the "fa" prefix
toc_sticky: true     # enables sticky toc           
---

### Introduction

The workshop is designed to bridge academic research and real-world urban decision-making. It combines a structured technical introduction with a guided co-creation session, allowing participants to move from urban challenges to concrete research and prototyping ideas.

### Workshop structure (4 hours): 

### Part 1 – Technical talk and live demo (approx. 2 hours) 
This first block introduces the fundamentals of agent-based modeling and digital twins as tools to study complex urban systems. We will present how these approaches are currently used in urban research and policy  contexts, and walk through UrbanEcho’s platform and previous cases as examples.

### Part 2 – Guided brainstorming and research design (approx. 2 hours)
In the second half, participants organized in mixed groups (academia, transport, water, security, planning), will bring concrete urban issues or research questions they are interested in addressing. With guidance from the UrbanEcho team, each group will work on translating those issues into modelable research problems: defining agents, data needs, scenarios, and outcome metrics. The session closes with a plenary discussion to identify promising ideas and possible next steps toward pilot studies or applied research projects.


## Date
February  28, 2026

## Location
Bogota, Colombia <br>
Distrital University<br> 
[Aduanilla de Paiba](https://maps.app.goo.gl/K3QpDdoadHPF1qUq6)

## Language
This workshop will be taught in English.

## Important
**Register required**

## Organization Comitee 
{% include feature_row id="organizing_committee" %}




### The KeyNote


Dr. Grace Orowo Kagho  is  Lecturer at the Department of Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering of ETH Zuric


## Stay connected

If you would like to stay connected with this community, feel free to contact us at [workshops@cybercolombia.org](mailto:workshops@cybercolombia.org)
